Online Payment Fraud Detection Model
This repository contains a machine learning model for detecting fraudulent online payment transactions. The model is trained on a dataset containing various features related to each transaction, such as transaction type, amount, old balance, and new balance. The binary target variable indicates whether the transaction is fraudulent or not.

Dataset
The dataset used for this model can be found here. It contains a collection of transactions, each with a label indicating whether it is a fraudulent transaction or not.

Requirements
To run the model, you will need the following libraries:

Python (>=3.6)
Pandas
NumPy
Seaborn
Matplotlib
Scikit-learn
XGBoost
LightGBM
CatBoost
You can install these libraries using pip:

Copy code
pip install pandas numpy seaborn matplotlib scikit-learn xgboost lightgbm catboost
Files
Online_Payment_Fraud_Detection.ipynb: Jupyter Notebook containing the entire code and step-by-step analysis of the model development.
onlinefraud.csv: Dataset file containing the transaction data.
Instructions
Clone this repository to your local machine.
Install the required libraries mentioned in the Requirements section.
Open the Jupyter Notebook Online_Payment_Fraud_Detection.ipynb.
Run the notebook to explore the dataset, preprocess the data, build and train the models, compare their performance, and make predictions on new data.
The model predictions on new data can be obtained by using the provided features and running the relevant code in the notebook.
Model Performance
The model's performance is evaluated using accuracy score and confusion matrix. It is trained on a portion of the data using K-Fold Cross-Validation to ensure robustness and generalization.

Conclusion
This "Online Payment Fraud Detection" model serves as a useful tool for detecting fraudulent transactions in online payment systems. The selected model showcases an accuracy rate of [insert accuracy score] and effectively classifies transactions as either "Fraud" or "Not Fraud."
